## Builder Design Pattern - CSharp
#### Builder pattern falls under Creational Pattern of Gang of Four (GOF) Design Patterns in .Net. It is used to builds a complex object by using a step by step approach. It provides an interface for creating parts of a product. In this article, I would like share what is builder pattern and how is it work?
## What is Builder Pattern?
#### Builder pattern builds a complex object by using a step by step approach. Builder interface defines the steps to build the final object. This builder is independent from the objects creation process. A class that is known as Director, controls the object creation process.
#### Moreover, builder pattern describes a way to separate an object from its construction. The same construction method can create different representation of the object.

### Example:
 - Builder - IVehicleBuilder
	
		This is an interface which is used to define all the steps to create a product.
 
 - ConcreteBuilder - HeroBuilder & HondaBuilder
	
		This is a class which implements the Builder interface to create complex product. 

 - Product - Vehicle
	
		This is a class which defines the parts of the complex object which are 
		to be generated by the builder pattern.

 - Director - VehicleCreator
 
		This is a class which is used to construct an object using the Builder interface.
	
	
## When to use it?
 - Need to create an object in several steps (a step by step approach).
 - The creation of objects should be independent from the way the object's parts are assembled.
 - Runtime control over the creation process is required.
